blog/02-gettingStarted.md, before:

# Getting started

OK, enough background let's actually write some code. I ended last blog post extoling the virtues of Nx. This is going to be the place to start. It is possible to add Nx to an existing repository, but it is a lot easier to use it from the beginning. It also has many generators for adding new libaries and applications to an existing repo as well as a plugin system for adding new generators. This should help enabling new functionality quickly.

To start I run

```
npx create-nx-workspace radar-web-app-template --packageManager=pnpm
```

I keep most of the default settings but selected empty project. I'll add libraries and applications manually.

## A quick aside

You might be thinking "This guy wants to build the most scalable, maintainable, portable web applicatin ever, and the first thing he types is `npx`. What a newb. Everyone know javascript/typescript is >>insert your favourite explitives here<<". (Maybe you don't think that - I am not here to start internet wars - just explore different tech and their applications.) However, typescript does provide the most comprehensive sets of libraries for building web pages. It is going to be hard to avoid it in the real world. Sure there other languages but nothing comes close to the ubiquity of React or Angular.

What makes this more defensible IMO is that Nx isn't just a javscript/typescript tool. It has support and generators for coordinating a polyglot mono-repo (supposedly). I am looking fowrard to seeing how possible it will be to add in more robust languages for other parts of this project. Or maybe this will be the first of my many mistakes, we'll see...

// TODO: first package, getting github things setup, conventional commit, commit hooks

Commit message:

wip: what npx create did

blog/02-gettingStarted.md, after:

# Getting started

OK, enough background let's actually write some code. I ended last blog post extoling the virtues of Nx. This is going to be the place to start. It is possible to add Nx to an existing repository, but it is a lot easier to use it from the beginning. It also has many generators for adding new libaries and applications to an existing repo as well as a plugin system for adding new generators. This should help enabling new functionality quickly.

To start I run

```
npx create-nx-workspace radar-web-app-template --packageManager=pnpm
```

I keep most of the default settings but selected empty project. I'll add libraries and applications manually. I opted to use GitHub as my build pipeline. I have heard great things about GitLabs, but I know almost nothing about it. Maybe it will be something to migrate to some point down the line. For now GitHub Actions should be entirely sufficient.

Let's take a look around, what did we get?

First we have a GitHub action yml file. This does some basic setup and then runs some tests. There is a recommended extensions json file in the `.vscode` folder. It only contains the Nx extension for Angular, and as I won't be using Angular I won't be installing it. There is a `.gitignore`, nothing special, just some good defaults. We've got an empty `packages` folder as well as a `pnpm-workspace.yaml` file that tells pnpm that our packages are in the `packages` folder. I will probably add an `applications` folder at some point going forward and update the workspaces folder. We've got a `packages.json` folder, just some defaults for now, and also a `README.md` with nothing yet.

## A quick aside

You might be thinking "This guy wants to build the most scalable, maintainable, portable web applicatin ever, and the first thing he types is `npx`. What a newb. Everyone know javascript/typescript is >>insert your favourite explitives here<<". (Maybe you don't think that - I am not here to start internet wars - just explore different tech and their applications.) However, typescript does provide the most comprehensive sets of libraries for building web pages. It is going to be hard to avoid it in the real world. Sure there other languages but nothing comes close to the ubiquity of React or Angular.

What makes this more defensible IMO is that Nx isn't just a javscript/typescript tool. It has support and generators for coordinating a polyglot mono-repo (supposedly). I am looking fowrard to seeing how possible it will be to add in more robust languages for other parts of this project. Or maybe this will be the first of my many mistakes, we'll see...

// TODO: first package, getting github things setup, conventional commit, commit hooks, Nx Cloud
